[Music]
now if you're feeling guilty about the
time you get up
don't be i'm sure not and you don't need
to deprive yourself of sleep
or change your sleep patterns to make a
success of yourself
for instance british prime minister
winston churchill
liked to get up at noon and he had to
run a whole country
there are plenty of ceos who prefer a
late start too
reddit co-founder alexis ohanian
buzzfeed
ceo jonah peretti investor warren
buffett
and elon musk love to sleep in many
successful people are most productive at
night
tom lehman works from 3 a.m to 10 30 a.m
and this strange schedule doesn't
prevent him from successfully managing
genius that doesn't mean that you have
to get up late to be successful either
though
many wealthy celebrities get up just as
ordinary people
are getting ready to go to bed apple ceo
tim cook wakes up at 3 45 a.m
actor dwayne the rock johnson begins his
workout at 4am
his colleague mark wahlberg wakes up
even earlier
at 2 30 a.m oprah winfrey michelle obama
writer dan brown starbucks ceo howard
schultz
and many successful people start working
before the sun rises
the early morning made these people rich
and famous
they wake up earlier than other people
which means they're already a few steps
ahead
while everyone else is in bed nothing
distracts them
their children wife and friends are all
still sleeping
they can use this time to go jogging in
the park educate themselves or work
waking up early is productive
fashionable and cool
don't forget that you need at least
seven hours of sleep per day
waking up early can be very productive
but that doesn't mean you should do it
think back to the last time you got up
earlier than usual
does it sound like this the irritating
buzz of the alarm
yanks you out of sleep why where am i
you're confused and disoriented your
eyelids feel as heavy as dumbbells
and your head is pounding you shower
brush your teeth and gulp down a cup of
coffee without even thinking
you feel unfocused and robotically do
things without paying much attention
you look at the barbell and feel like
you should train
but you're just so tired maybe tomorrow
if you struggle to get up early don't do
it just for the promise of productivity
all of the benefits of getting up early
can be gained from waking up late too
there won't be any disturbances when you
work or train at night either
and that might be a better fit for you
you just need to find what makes you the
most productive
and do that a lot of people can be
categorized as either night owls or
morning larks owls work well at night
and larks feel great in the early
morning owls like to wake up late and
fall asleep after midnight
some even prefer to work through the
night going to bed just before dawn or
even later
these people are generally most
effective after 2 pm
like the bird they were named after
morning larks tend to go to bed around
10 pm
and wake up between 4 am and 6 am
they feel great in the morning and work
best just after they've woken up
there's also a third lesser known type
of person though
these people don't really fit into
either category and
are called pigeons they feel equally
good in the morning
and the evening the time of your
effectiveness depends on your
physiological characteristics
genetics mood and even age play an
important role
the younger a person is the more likely
they are to be a night owl
the older a person is the more likely
they are to be a morning lark
one to three percent of people can go to
bed at 11 p.m
and wake up at 5 a.m this isn't because
they're harder working or more dedicated
they were just lucky enough to be born
needing less sleep
a mutation of the dec2 gene means that
their body can function well with a
relatively short sleep
our sleep is disturbed when we have
abnormal levels of the orexin hormone
and this mutation helps to keep this in
check
no amount of motivation and advice from
business coaches will make you
successful and rich
if your bio rhythm is broken you need to
figure out what schedule works best for
you
and make sure you have the best rest
possible
it's essential to develop a consistent
sleep routine and get up
at the same time every day the human
body works on a 24-hour biological clock
so we need a stable rhythm to function
our brain uses light to synchronize the
clock
when our eyes see that it's light
outside every living cell in our body
reacts to it
at 9am your testosterone production is
at its highest level
at 10 am you're the most attentive at 2
30 pm
you have the best coordination and at 3
you have the best reactions by midnight
the body calms down
and at 2 am the deepest phase of sleep
begins
oh your mileage may vary when traveling
to another time zone
it's common for our body clock to get
out of sync
the morning and night are different to
back home and the sun rises and sets at
different
times this condition is called jet lag
when you force the body to be awake or
sleep at an
unfamiliar time you disrupt the work of
your biological clock
this can cause insomnia drowsiness poor
performance
or even depression this is why it's
essential to go to bed and wake up
at the same time even on saturdays and
sundays
doing this ensures that you are always
well rested and are active at the most
useful times
if you're overwhelmed in the morning
then use these top secrets of a
productive day
never set the alarm button to repeat
sleep cycles last 45 minutes so
when you lay down for another 10 minutes
you're actually making
yourself feel even more sluggish when
you eventually get up
give up gadgets before bedtime yeah i
know you've heard this a thousand times
but believe me it's very important it's
common to get in bed turn the lights off
and spend a bit of time texting your
friends or checking social media before
you go to sleep
when you do this the light from the
screen hits the retina of your eye
and the brain receives a signal that
it's still day
this is bad all around but the worst
thing is that it causes the body to
suppress
melatonin production melatonin is the
hormone that makes us feel sleepy
and ready to rest it's vital to make
sure its production isn't inhibited
30 minutes on a smartphone is enough to
ruin this all on its own
it forces the hands of your biological
clock backwards
and ruins your sleep this also makes it
far harder to be productive throughout
the day
because you'll feel tired and groggy
start your day with a workout
even a brisk walk with your favorite
music on will have some great benefits
biological rhythms helps us solve
complex problems
without them we couldn't finish the
project pass the exam
drive through a traffic jam on the way
to work some groups have developed
unusual rhythms though the amazing
people of peraha
live in the amazon jungle they have one
of the most
fascinating languages in the world but
that isn't all
this tribe barely needs any sleep their
sleep is divided into two parts
daytime and nighttime each sleep lasts
between
15 minutes and two hours this is barely
anything compared to the seven to nine
hours that most people sleep without
interruption
the paraha believe that sleep makes a
person weak
so they have the least they possibly can
this abnormal development in sleep
patterns likely resulted from the need
to avoid the dangerous animals in the
area
in a deep sleep a person might not hear
a venomous snake or a jaguar
the para style of sleep has reached the
developed world too
people have recently started to
experiment with the idea of polyphasic
sleep
polyphasic sleep is broken down into
intervals
rather than our usual uninterrupted rest
for example someone on a polyphasic
sleep cycle might sleep for two hours
then work for four then sleep for two
and so on
there are some situations where this
sleep cycle is very beneficial
every four years there's an event called
the vendi globe
round the world regatta starting on the
coast of france
boats travel 22 000 miles
the race takes place in the difficult
natural conditions of the southern
hemisphere
the participants have to adhere to a few
rules they must complete the regatta
alone without assistance and without
stopping
the best result in the regatta's history
was 74 days
3 hours 35 minutes and 46 seconds
you might wonder how athletes managed to
sleep in this situation
after all they have to do everything
alone and the race goes on
non-stop the answer is polyphasic sleep
imagine yourself as a participant in
this race around the world
huge ocean waves throw your yacht around
like a feather
the gale force wind tears at your sails
cold water
lashes against your face you your
clothes your boat
everything smells like salt and algae
when the ocean calms down for a moment
you
jump into the hole lie down on the bed
fall asleep
instantly of course you have to who
knows when you'll be forced to operate
the ship again
after 20 minutes you wake up again and
continue the race
you'll fall asleep again in one hour if
you're lucky
the racers in the regatta have to do
this or the race would be impossible
in some countries this condition is
called wolf sleep
when wolves are sleeping they hear
everything around them
and instantly wake up if they need to
defend themselves
scientists have noted that bigger
animals tend to sleep less
giraffes sleep for one to five hours a
day
weirdly this short sleep is disrupted
even more
they often rest in short several minute
intervals
elephants sleep only two hours a day
your dog
on the other hand sleeps 50 percent of
its life yeah like you during the
holidays
the most sleepy creature in the animal
kingdom is the large
hairy armadillo it sleeps an incredible
20 hours a day
dolphins are technically always awake
they can put one half of its brain to
sleep
when the right hemisphere of the brain
is asleep the dolphin's left eye is
closed
when the left side of the brain is
turned off the right side is shut
imagine if you knew how to sleep while
running
of course in humans this is impossible
but birds know how to sleep
during flight cricket birds can spend 10
days in the sky
it sleeps no more than an hour per day
they can also turn off one of the
brain's hemispheres
while the right eye is closed the left
hemisphere stays awake
and controls its flight occasionally the
bird falls asleep completely and
falls like a stone luckily they usually
wake up in a few seconds
and continue flying before they hit the
ground
ah good thing